# **Advent Of Code 2023**
Simple and easy to understand python solutions of Advent of Code 2023

<h2>Explanations for each day:</h2>
<h3>Day 1</h3>
Part 1 doesn't require much explanation: make a list of all digits in each line, combine the first and last digit in the list into one number and add it to the total.<br />
Part 2 uses some RegEx to find patterns (spelt numbers) in the lines. It is important to note that re.finditer doesn't include overlapping patterns, but in this instance since no numbers from 1-9 have any overlap with themselves I decided to use it in order to keep the code simple and easy to read. If you wanted to apply this to a problem which does include overlapping patterns you can read more about it with the below link, it is fairly easy to do: https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/python-program-to-find-indices-of-overlapping-substrings/.

<h3>Day 2</h3>
First main block of code extracts the required numbers from the data using some simple RegEx and creates a list of tuples with all the information needed for answering the question. The second block then loops through all games and makes the required calculations / additions to the totals. Fairly simple problem, a good example of where a knowledge of RegEx is really useful to remove lots of splitting and string manipulation.

<h3>Day 3</h3>
Loops through the schematic to find symbols. Then finds neighbouring numbers using some simple RegEx (yes, again). For part 1 simply add the sum of adjacent numbers to the total, for part 2 check whether there are exactly two adjacent numbers and add the product of them to the total. 

<h3>Day 4</h3>
Two functions: One finds the number of matching numbers between the numbers and winning numbers. Simple set intersection. The other is recursive and finds the number of copies generated by each card. Uses caching to significantly increase the speed of the algorithm. The program then loops through all the lines of the input, uses RegEx to extract the numbers and then calculates the number of points to add to the total, as well as finds the number of copies to be added to the cards total. It also adds an extra one to the cards total to account for that card.
